This small chunk won't be enough,
but it came down the stream in the cave.
There must be tons further inside.
Tons of this heat-resistant
treasure called tungsten!
We only have one set of
materials left to make a light.
The last member of the
exploration team will be...
Magma.
Tungsten's tough as hell. We're going
to need brute force to collect it.
Let's go cave diving.
We're a trio of spelunking buddies.
To the fun treasure dungeon!
Senku, Chrome, and Magma?!
I've never heard of such a risky group.
I-I-Is that even safe?
He might be like, "I'm the chief!"
and attack you or something, Senku!
Come on, let's get going,
the three of us.
Vacuum Tube
We're after the magic stone that we'll
need for making vacuum tube filaments:
scheelite, which glows blue
under ultraviolet light.
The most heat-resistant metal
in the world, tungsten!
This chunk came down a
stream in the cave, too.
There must be a treasure trove further in.
I'm counting on you to take
us to the cave, Chrome.
Got it!
Going into the caves with
two science users...
No one will be watching.
He's finally gone.
Senku-chan's gone from Ishigami Village.
The water's lukewarm.
We can definitely expect some treasures.
Yo, Senku...
Was it honestly a good idea
to bring Magma along?
He's a meathead who doesn't care about
anything but being king of the hill.
He's totally intent on snuffing you out
when you least expect it
and taking over the village.
Think about what's going on.
We desperately need tungsten
in order to make cell phones.
That treasure is in the depths of the cave,
and to dig it out, we need
Magma's power desperately.
The situation is ten billion percent simple.
We have to do it, so there's no point in
thinking about the buts, what-ifs, or risks.
Still, though...
If Magma were to shove us down
and say we died in an accident,
it'd be the perfect crime.
Besides, if he takes our heads
to Tsukasa, and science vanishes,
Tsukasa won't attack.
No way the meathead's thought that far ahead.
Get back!
What's up, Senku?
It's mica.
It's like Baumkuchen...
which doesn't help, I guess.
Even though it's a rock, it's brittle
enough to break with your fingers.
Look.
They're natural pit traps.
Damn, nature's traps are nasty.
Would you be stuck if you fell into one?
Yeah.
Try to get back up with a rope or ladder,
and it'll cave in on you and bury you alive.
No! Let go, Senku!
It's going to cave in under your feet!
Didn't you see that?
Magma tried to shove us into the mica pits!
Yeah, that's right!
I came to this cave to kill you two!
You little twigs act so big, but you're
so useless, you can hardly even hunt!
The strongest becomes the
boss and gets the women,
and the village becomes stronger.
That's mother nature.
That's life.
"Science," my ass!
Senku, maybe in your world,
the twigs controlled the muscles,
but this is the world of stone!
You're the one getting in our way!
Damn it, Senku, if only you hadn't
come to Ishigami Village that day,
I would have been in power.
I'm the one who's truly strong.
I'm the number one man!
Senku! Magma!
Quit wandering around!
You're getting on my nerves!
I'm measuring stuff.
There's no way we're
getting out of this hole.
It's ten billion times better than just
sitting and waiting like some idiot.
Keep raising your voice like a dumbass,
and it'll cave in and bury us alive.
You damn twig...
Are you messing with me?!
I'll kill you, you little twig!
I told you, it'll cave in if you keep shouting.
If we keep pouring in water
from that pond over there,
you might be able to swim back out.
It's never going to work
if you pour it that slowly!
Slow and steady wins the race, right?
It's better than doing nothing!
Hang on.
That's not bad.
We have no use for resignation
or for arguing about diligence.
Science determines whether it'll work or not.
Connecting the gas mask tubes will give us
a good meter of drop height from the surface.
If the inner diameter of the tube is
two centimeters, by Torricelli's law,
the flow will be 0.00139
cubic meters per second.
If the hole is 28 cubic meters,
that's 20131.68 seconds, or 5.59 hours.
Q: Flow
Q=AV (A: tube cross-section area, V: fluid speed)
V=√2gh (Torricelli's law)
(g: gravitational acceleration, h: height of fluid surface)
Q=(0.01)²xπx√2x9.8x1
=0.001390842357211[m3/sec]
Volume of hole
V=2x2x7 (Base is 2 square meters, depth is 7 meters)
=28[m³]
Therefore, the time to fill the hole with water is...
Since it's lukewarm, we should
just barely avoid hypothermia.
Chrome, I'm going to tell
you how to craft something.
Can you do it?
Yeah, of course I can.
Don't underestimate Chrome the science user!
See? I told you.
We're screwed if any one of us is missing.
The twigs controlled
the muscles in my world?
Obviously not.
We were just divvying up the work.
In a technological civilization,
you need twigs like us,
and we need brawny meatheads like you.
Even someone who's got nothing going
for them can come in useful someday.
It doesn't matter who's
the boss or who's on top.
There are all kinds of people.
And that equals strength.
I don't care about your babble.
Senku, you took the throne from me.
That's all.
Yeah, you're right.
But in exchange...
You get to see all the insane stuff
that humanity worked together
for two million years to build.
Stuff you never would've seen otherwise.
And I'll show you so much of it,
it'll make your head spin.
How is the water going from low to high?
Time for happy grade school
science: the siphon!
I'll explain, just in case.
Fill a tube with water, then take it to
a point lower than the water surface.
The water will flow upward
and continue flowing.
It'll even work in your bathtub. Give it a try.
This is bad.
It's going to take a while longer
for the water to fill up,
but Senku's almost out of energy.
You go ahead and get up, little twig.
I'm the number one power of the
Ishigami Village, living by the sea.
Don't underestimate me.
Senku!
I don't care if you're the boss anymore.
At least, until we deal with that Tsukasa guy.
But if you show me anything
lame, I'll kill you!
Yeah, that works for me.
There's no way science could be lame.
Magma's brute strength got us
out of the worst-case scenario.
Worst-case scenario?
The fact that we'd have been dead
had our bodies gotten any colder.
This is why I can't stand you little twigs.
No.
The worst-case scenario that would
have occurred if we'd gotten any colder...
is...
Magma and I would've had to hold
each other to maintain our body heat.
That definitely is the worst-case scenario.
I was right!
I found it.
This striped rock face...
This dungeon we're currently in...
It's a skarn deposit.
We can get a stupid amount
of sweet minerals here.
It's nature's treasure chest.
This is crazy!
White, black, blue, gold...
It really is clearly separated into stripes!
I've never seen a rock like this!
A rock is a rock, isn't it?
The magma underground boils water
that gets into the white rocks,
the limestone, that's all over the place.
All the stuff that's inside the
hot water seeps into the rocks,
transforming it into all
different kinds of rocks.
That's a skarn deposit, nature's treasure chest.
I see.
That's why the parts around the
cracks transform and form stripes.
In other words, with
Magma's strength on our side,
we're able to acquire super-rare gems.
All right, we're here.
The gems we're after are inside this wall.
The rocks are hard as hell.
We twigs are useless for digging them out.
We're counting on you, number-one power.
I didn't want to attack you head-on
and get countered by science weapons.
But you wouldn't be alarmed if I were to raise
a weapon while I'm digging
for treasures, would you?
You wouldn't—
That's right!
The backs of your heads
are wide open right now!
And I was going to murder you.
I'm sure you were.
That's why you couldn't help but
save us back at the mica hole.
I know you weren't trying
to shove me into the hole.
You were trying to save me.
Magma.
Sorry.
I insulted you.
Hit me.
I don't care anymore.
It doesn't change the fact
that I was going to kill you!
The most heat-resistant rock in the universe!
It's ours!
Tungsten acquired!!
Yeah.
Tungsten's an insane treasure...
but in this dungeon of treasures,
the three of us found
an even more precious treasure:
the treasure of friendship.
What are you even talking about?
That's so cringy.
Yeah, totally cringy.
Sh-Shut up!
I regretted it the moment
it came out of my mouth!
Why are you two suddenly hitting it off?!
Oh, man, there's way too much treasure here!
Look! Manganese!
Manganese that's used
for manganese batteries!
Copper pyrite!
Sphalerite!
They're just rocks!
Are you done yet?!
The sun's going to set!
Bring Senku-chan back by
evening three days from now.
If you do...
We're heading back!
Oh, come on, just a little longer.
Yeah, we found a mountain of treasure.
You little twigs aren't going
to carry all that anyway!
Hurry up!
Why are you suddenly in such a hurry?
What the hell are you doing?!
Where are you taking Senku?! Hey!
Hey, Senku-chan.
Welcome back.
Huh? What's going on?
Don't bother trying to call for help, Senku.
We're all working with Gen.
So you bastards finally
figured out the hack, huh?
All you need to do is hand science
and my head over to Tsukasa,
and the village is safe. It's perfectly logical.
I have no idea what you're
talking about, but...
An astronomy telescope...
Or rather, an observatory...
I'm going to space.
January Fourth...
Rock Day!
I heard it's your birthday today, Senku.
We all got you a birthday gift.
He's finally gone.
Hey, guys, hear me out.
I have an awesome idea.
I mean, I just vaguely remembered that
you can put two lenses in a tube.
It's half-assed, but whatever.
Hey
These people would like to help.
Senku better get me something
even more awesome for my birthday.
This is way too much work, man.
Yeah.
The whole village worked hard to make this.
You're going to have to fine-tune
it yourself, Senku-chan.
Yeah.
Hang on, Senku! Are you moved
for the first time in forever?
You can cry, you know.
You don't need to hold it in.
You're so low, Ginro.
Go on! Go on! Go on!
Good job, everyone!
This is extremely practical.
We can use it on our
watchtower against Tsukasa.
Y-Yeah, that's true.
Your feedback's as rational as ever.
A guy doesn't bother
bringing up his own birthday.
How did you know it was today?
Our internal clocks are messed up
from the petrification, though.
I don't even know how old I am anymore.
Think about how many days you've been alive.
What about you?
6,268 days.
Oh... So you used a leading question on me.
Still, you couldn't have figured it out
if you didn't know when I revived.
Don't you remember?
You wrote the day your
petrification was undone...
AD 5738
April 1
by the miracle cave,
as soon as you woke up.
So he wrote this when he was un-petrified?
How did he know what day it was?
Was he... The whole time?
This dude's totally insane.
Come to think of it,
ever since the beginning...
Since before I met you...
I've been rather fond of you, Senku-chan,
setting aside personal gains.
I'm sure it's the same
for the other villagers.
You might say that's cringy, though.
Yeah, that's cringy.
See?
Wave of Science
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.